ICICI Elevate Health Insurance Plan
is one of the best health insurance plans
in India in 2024 and will remain so in the future.
However, it has many hidden terms and conditions
which you need to understand, especially
for those who are already pre-
registered. All its
USP riders
like booster or insurance cover.
You will find almost 30 riders in this plan.
In this video, I am going to
tell you about each of its terms and conditions.
From basic features to the
terms and conditions of all its 30 riders, I will
explain everything point to point, inside and out, so that
if you have selected this plan, then
you will be able to come to a conclusion whether the
plan is for you or not.
How will it be for the long term? You should take it.
You will get everything in this video. So let's get
started. So before I jump into the
terms and conditions, let's
also discuss the zonal premium a little because
many people get confused about this.
For a particular plan, the company has
divided India into four zones - Zone A,
Zone B, Zone C and Zone D. Most
companies limit themselves to Zone C, but
they have created an extra zone just
to manage the risk factor. In Zone A,
they have mostly included big cities.
Yes, the hospitalization cost is
higher there, hence the company will charge a
higher premium from you. In Zone B, they have included
smaller cities or
states where the
hospitalization bill or surgery
cost is slightly lower compared to Zone A. Similarly, the rest
of India is included in Zone C. There are
some exclusions here as well, which
you can see according to your locality.
So, I have compared the premium
for 25 years old persons for insurance of Rs 10 lakh
and I have also included some riders
which a person should basically take
if he is healthy. So, the standard premium of Zone A
comes around Rs 10,800.
Those in Zone B are given a slight discount.
Those in Zone C are given a little more discount of around 1000.
Now they have
kept a very high premium for Zone D,
even more than Zone A. This Zone D was
created to manage its risk.
I think they have added only some places
where I think the risk is
higher for the company. There too, there might be
more claims coming or some fraud
type things might be happening more. That is why those in Zone
D should think carefully before buying the plan.
If it is within your budget, then
you can take this plan or it may be expensive for the long term. Apart from the zonal discount,
you also get a simple discount of up
to 15%. If you are
taking this policy on an individual level, then
well and good. But if you are
taking a family floater, then take the policy in the name of the person whose CIBIL score is good and
make him the proposer so that the entire family can
get the discount. I don't know how long this will
sustain, but for now the
company is giving it, it may give it for a few extra
years, it may stop it later.  Yes, but
no one guarantees this discount.
So let us first talk about inpatient treatment.
Basically, when you get
admitted to the hospital,
whatever expenses are incurred in that, that comes under your inpatient
treatment. In this particular plan,
you get a single private AC room
built in the policy, but
you get the option to upgrade your plan
to no room rent limit or you
can also downgrade it to a sharing room. No matter which
room category you have chosen, there is no
limit given for ICU here.
That means even if you have taken a sharing room,
you will not have to pay any extra charge on ICU. Even if it is a
single private
AC room, you will not have to pay any
extra charge on ICU. And if there
is no room rent, then definitely there will be no
limit in your ICU.
Look at ICU, there is no limit here,
but suppose you had taken a sharing room
and you are admitted in a single private AC room,
then you may have to pay money from your pocket there.
All the things are associated with the room only.
Like your nursing
charges, operation theatre charges,
medical practitioner's fee,
surgeon's fee, specialist, whoever
comes to your hospital, all these things are
associated, you have to give the entire proposed
deduction, so those who have
no idea how this room category can
affect you
in real life, here is an example, in this way
every hospital has a category of
your room, so before getting into the
hospital or getting admitted into the
hospital, you
can cross check all these things at the reception, only then you will get admitted, otherwise
you can get into trouble later,
next is day care treatment, now here
they have mentioned that all procedures are
covered up to annual cess, day care means
that you will not need to get admitted in the hospital,
that procedure will be done within 24 hours and
you can go home on the same day, like if you have
dialysis or chemotherapy
or radiotherapy, all these are the things
which they have made clear in their
policy  It is written in the terms and conditions of the plan
and it should be less than 24 hours, this is also a
condition, but the things which are not covered are
their outpatient treatment or
diagnostic services. Now people get a
little confused here because because of this feature,
people think that my
policy has day care procedure, now
my stomach is aching, so I go to a doctor
or directly to the hospital,
I have insurance and
they give me medicines or get some
diagnostic tests done,
sonography, X-ray, whatever it is, then
you will get the money for day care,
but this does not happen, which they have
clearly mentioned here and one
thing which is excluded here
is your peritoneal dialysis. Next
is modern treatment up to some, in short, it
is covered, this is one of the most important
things for your futuristic plan because going forward,
everything is going to be modern, that is why
they have mentioned all
12 things in their terms and conditions.
Next is pre and post hospitalization without any limit.
In this plan, you get 90 and 180 days pre
and post, which is
standard in most of the insurances.
But if you look at their terms and conditions, then
they have mentioned that it will not be given to you until
they pass your claim.
Here, which
they have clearly mentioned, that
means if you are
getting money for hospitalization claim, then it is eligible for pre and
post. If they have
not given you the claim
for hospitalization, then you will not be eligible for pre and post as well.
And one thing you have to keep
in mind is that if you have
taken nursing facility in your home, then all those
things will also not be covered. That means you will
not get the expenses of the nurse.
Same things have been mentioned for post hospitalization also. That
means that once
you are discharged from the hospital, then
whatever expenses are incurred in your recovery, be it for
medicines or any blood
test, sonography or
All the money that is due to the doctor's follow-up will be available through
reimbursement, which
he has clearly mentioned here. And
one thing, here you also get money for physiotherapy
if that medical
is also necessary and the doctor has given it in writing.
Next is inpatient AYUSH
hospitalization, which is covered up to some in short,
but in the terms and conditions,
they have clearly mentioned that brother,
all AYUSH will be covered up to some in short,
but if that government
affair is not authorized, then you will
not get the money. You
get the facility of both cashless and reimbursement here.
In many insurance plans, you
only have the facility of reimbursement for AYUSH treatment,
but here you also get cashless treatment
depending on the hospitals. So, it is a
very good thing. Next is domestic
road ambulance, which is covered up to some in short,
but it has some terms and conditions. The
company has clearly mentioned in the terms and conditions
that you
can go only to the nearest hospital in which  That there
is the highest medical facility and you have to shift from there or to
another hospital, then
you can use the ambulance for that too or
you can easily take it to the nearest diagnostic centers as well and one condition is
that the ambulance should be registered
by the Road Safety Authority and one thing
you should always keep in mind is that you
cannot take the ambulance service for your home, that
means you get discharged from the hospital
and you have to go home, then you
cannot take the ambulance service for that thing, which
they have clearly written in their terms and
conditions that it is not payable under this
benefit, next is donor expenses
up to some, in short, you can get covered,
they have clearly mentioned in their terms and conditions
that they will only
give you the medical expenses on the day of your
operation, on the day of your transplantation, when
that part is taken out from your donor and inserted
in you, then on the day
that person is admitted, only that admission
is covered, apart from that whatever pre and post
hospitalization of the donor  For that it is not covered
and suppose at the time of donation there
is some complication to your donor then
they have clearly mentioned that
you will not be given any money here at all.
They have also mentioned that the joke which
I found a bit weird is that you have
insurance, if you want to donate yourself
with family members or you
want to donate to anyone willingly then
you yourself will not be covered. When it comes to
donation or organ
transplantation then only within
family members donate. Suppose
in families, the father is giving to his child or the
children are giving to their father, then the one who is
donating is not going to be covered, which
they have clearly mentioned in this pointer. So you have to
take some precaution. If
your requirement is something like this
then you need to look at other plans.
Next is domestic hospitalization, this
is covered up to some in short. People
see this on paper that brother, it is covered up to some in short, so this is a
very good thing.
They have made such tough terms and conditions that
you cannot get admitted until the medical practitioner gives you a written prescription, which
they have clearly mentioned here, on top
of that, three days are compulsory, if you take this domicile
treatment for less than three days, then
you will not get the claim, which is written here,
they have already mentioned all the things that they will
not pay for all these things, the most common of which is
if you have asthma, bronchitis,
tonsillitis,
respiratory disorder, arthritis, gout in which there is a
lot of pain or
chronic nephritis, that means kidney
failure, liver disease or liver
failure in which there is a lot of pain, you are
thinking that I have insurance, I can
take it sitting at home, but you will not be
able to take it because this is in the exclusion, next
is guaranteed no claim bonus, here you get 20%
every year, maximum
you get 100% if you follow the terms  If you look at the end conditions
also, they have clearly mentioned
that you will get no claim bonus every year at 20%,
if you have not made a claim then
maximum up to 100% and if you have taken a
floater policy then all the members can use that no
claim bonus, that means there will be
a common no claim bonus which all the
members will be able to utilize and one thing
you have to keep in mind is that even if
any member of the family floater policy makes a small
claim, you will
not get the no claim bonus which is
clearly mentioned in point number second, the third
point may create a little confusion for some people,
I will explain it in a little easy way
that the husband and wife had taken a
policy of 10 lakhs, did not make a claim in the first year,
hence they get ₹1 lakh no
claim bonus, in the second year also they
get ₹1 lakh no claim bonus, now they
want that brother, we should
add our baby here in the third year, so when the baby will be
added here, then the baby  He will
get a cover of only Rs 10 lakh and will not get this extra Rs 4 lakh
because the baby has only
entered the policy and has not exited it. The
husband and wife have already exited for two years,
hence they have received a
no claim bonus. He will also
spend one year in that policy, only then will the baby
get Rs 1 lakh no claim bonus for that particular
year because the baby was added and
no claim was made or no member made the claim
and the husband and wife will
get a full cover of Rs 10 lakh because the husband
and wife were in this policy since the last nine years,
hence they are getting no claim bonus separately.
This is what has been tried to explain in point number three, so do
not get confused. The
special thing about the no claim bonus in this particular policy is that once you have deposited
your no claim bonus, even if you make a
claim in the next year or in the coming years, your no claim bonus will still remain.
It will not be reduced as it is
clearly mentioned in their terms and conditions
that cumulative bonus will not be
reduced in the event of a claim. This is a very
good thing but there needs to be some caution here because
no company
wants to increase its liability. The
premium of this plan has already been kept very low by the
company so that it can capture the market. The
same mantra always works in insurance -
with good features comes the good
premium. The terms and conditions have been
explained so much that the video has
become very long, so you will get to see part two
here. Go to continuation
and watch it directly by clicking from here. If you must have
liked the video till now, then like it and
go. And if you want me to give
you personal one to one consultation, then you will
get all the details in the link in the
description or you can directly whatsapp me on this number 2
here.